docs: consolidate known issues PCP-6520 DOC-2778 (#10204)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/release-notes/known-issues.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <!-- https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/browse/PE-8400 --> Edge hosts configured with <VersionedLink text="K3s" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=edge-k3s" />, <VersionedLink text="Traefik" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=traefik" /> and [kube-vip](../clusters/edge/networking/kubevip.md) may experience unexpected IP takeover behavior and loss of etcd quorum due to a [kube-vip issue](https://github.com/kube-vip/kube-vip/issues/1016). Ensure that the following configurations are provided in the K3s pack values: <br/> - `traefik` and `servicelb` remain listed in the `cluster.config.disable` field. <br/> - `cluster.kubevipArgs.svc_enable` remains set to false. <br /> These configurations are default pack values. | April 5, 2026      | Edge, Packs                  | 4.8.51      |
| <!-- https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/browse/PCP-6089 --> [EKS clusters](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/eks.md) deployed with the <VersionedLink text="AWS Cluster Autoscaler" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=aws-cluster-autoscaler" /> pack fail to upgrade the Kubernetes version of their worker node groups or `MachinePools`. Refer to [Scenario - EKS Worker Nodes Configured with Autoscaler Fail to Upgrade](../troubleshooting/cluster-deployment.md#scenario---eks-worker-nodes-configured-with-autoscaler-fail-to-upgrade) for the workaround.                                                                                                                                                                                | February 21, 2026  | Packs, Clusters              | 4.8.37      |
| <!-- https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-2587 --> [Virtual Machine Orchestrator](../vm-management/vm-management.md) Day-2 operations, such as VM start, stop, restart, and migrate, do not complete when triggered using the [Palette API](/api/introduction) on environments using 4.8.33.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | February 24, 2026  | Virtual Machine Orchestrator | 4.8.35      |
| On Edge clusters whose hosts run Ubuntu 24.04 with a Unified Kernel Image (UKI), CoreDNS pods may enter the `CrashLoopBackOff` state with logs showing `[FATAL] plugin/loop: Loop (127.0.0.1:<ephemeral-port> -> :53) detected for zone "."`. This happens because `/etc/resolv.conf` is symlinked to `/run/systemd/resolve/stub-resolv.conf`, which lacks real DNS server entries. As a result, CoreDNS forwards DNS queries to itself, creating a recursive loop. Refer to [Troubleshooting - Edge](../troubleshooting/edge/edge.md#scenario---coredns-pods-stuck-in-crashloopbackoff-due-to-dns-loop) for the workaround.                                                                                                              | October 7, 2025    | Edge                         | 4.8.21      |
| [Agent mode](../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) Edge cluster nodes configured with Agent version 4.8.1 may lose pre-existing `systemd-networkd` configurations (VLANs, bonds, and bridges) after a reboot. This occurs because the cleanup logic intended to remove stale VLAN configurations inadvertently deletes valid, pre-existing configurations not created through user data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | December 5, 2025   | Edge                         | 4.8.12      |
| Users cannot create Ubuntu 20.04 FIPS ISO images using CanvOS version 4.7.16.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | November 14, 2025  | Edge                         | 4.7.30      |
| Cluster deployments may fail after upgrading the Cluster API Provider AWS (CAPA) if the Instance Metadata Service Version 2 (IMDSv2) is configured with **Metadata version** set to **V2 only (token required)** in the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) settings.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | September 1, 2025  | Clusters                     | 4.7.21      |
| [Cluster profile variables](../profiles/cluster-profiles/create-cluster-profiles/define-profile-variables/create-cluster-profile-variables.md) are incorrectly applied to the `charts.virtual-machine-orchestrator.appConfig.clusterInfo.consoleBaseAddress` field used to provide [direct access to Virtual Machine Dashboard](../vm-management/configure-console-base-address.md).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | September 20, 2025 | Virtual Machine Orchestrator | 4.7.20      |
| Network overlay cluster nodes may display erroneous `failed to add static FDB entry after cleanup...Stdout already set, output` logs after [upgrading the Palette agent](../clusters/edge/cluster-management/agent-upgrade-airgap.md) to version 4.7.9. Cluster functionality is not affected.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | September 20, 2025 | Edge                         | 4.7.20      |
| On Azure IaaS clusters created using a Palette version prior to 4.6.32, scaling worker node pools does not attach newly created nodes to an outbound load balancer after upgrading to Palette version 4.6.32 or later and the cluster's Palette Agent version to 4.6.7 or later. This impacts outbound connectivity and may also disassociate existing NAT gateways from the worker node pool subnet, resulting in a loss of egress connectivity.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | September 1, 2025  | Clusters, Self-Hosted        | 4.7.20      |
| [HTTP-Proxies configured in Local UI](../clusters/edge/local-ui/host-management/configure-proxy.md) prior to cluster creation are not applied correctly.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | August 17, 2025    | Edge                         | 4.7.15      |
| After deleting an Edge cluster via the Palette UI, users cannot establish an SSH connection with their `user-data` credentials to the Edge host on which the cluster was previously deployed. This affects Edge hosts using Palette agent versions 4.6.21 - 4.7.9. To restore SSH access, connect to the Edge host via [remote shell](../clusters/edge/cluster-management/remote-shell.md) with a temporary username and password and add your user's password to the `user-data` file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | August 8, 2025     | Edge, Clusters               | 4.7.15      |
| [Agent mode](../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) clusters may initiate [cluster repaves](../clusters/cluster-management/node-pool.md#repave-behavior-and-configuration) intermittently.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | July 21, 2025      | Edge                         | 4.7.13      |
| For locally deployed clusters, adding a custom `stylus.path` to the `user-data` file causes cluster creation to fail, as it prevents the Palette agent from locating the `user-data` file.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | July 21, 2025      | Edge                         | 4.7.13      |
| Masked cluster profile variable values are displayed as plain text in [Edge Management API](/api/introduction/#edge-management-api) responses.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | July 24, 2025      | Clusters                     | 4.6.44      |
| When rebooting nodes in a Canonical Edge cluster deployed in a proxied environment, the nodes may fail to come back online.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | May 31, 2025       | Edge                         | 4.7.3       |
| Due to CAPZ upgrades in version 4.6.32, Azure US Government clusters (both IaaS and AKS) cannot be provisioned, and [Day-2 operations](../clusters/cluster-management/cluster-management.md) cannot be performed on existing Azure US Government clusters.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | May 31, 2025       | Clusters                     | 4.6.36      |
| Newly created [AWS EKS clusters](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/eks.md) that have configured [node pool customizations](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/eks.md#cloud-configuration-settings) fail to provision.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | May 31, 2025       | Clusters                     | 4.6.33      |
| Configuring [node pool customizations](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/eks.md#cloud-configuration-settings) on existing [AWS EKS clusters](../clusters/public-cloud/aws/eks.md) causes errors.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | May 31, 2025       | Clusters                     | 4.6.33      |
| <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> versions 1.31.x and 1.32.x do not support GCP. Clusters with this configuration fail to deploy. <!-- prettier-ignore-end-->                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | May 31, 2025       | Clusters                     | 4.6.32      |
| <!-- prettier-ignore-start --> <VersionedLink text="Palette eXtended Kubernetes (PXK)" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes" /> versions 1.31.x and 1.32.x do not support AWS. Clusters with this configuration fail to deploy. <!-- prettier-ignore-end-->                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | May 31, 2025       | Clusters                     | 4.6.32      |
| Deletion of [GCP clusters](../clusters/public-cloud/gcp/gcp.md) fails for clusters associated with cloud with cloud accounts that have been created on older Palette versions.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | May 5, 2025        | Clusters                     | 4.6.25      |
| [Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)](../clusters/cluster-management/compliance-scan.md#sbom-dependencies--vulnerabilities) scans are failing to execute successfully for all clusters.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | May 5, 2025        | Clusters                     | 4.6.24      |
| [Registry Mapping Rules](../clusters/edge/edge-configuration/installer-reference.md#registry-mapping-rules) provided with `stylus.externalRegistries.registryMappingRules` are not respected for connected [edge clusters](../clusters/edge/edge.md).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | April 19, 2025     | Edge                         | 4.6.23      |
| For clusters deployed with [agent mode](../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) on Palette agent version 4.5.14, having a custom `stylus.path` defined in the **user-data** file causes Kubernetes upgrades to fail. This affects all Kubernetes packs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | March 15, 2025     | Edge                         | 4.6.12      |
| If an Edge host operating a cluster in connected mode loses connection to Palette, the cluster will not auto-renew its Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) certificates. When it re-establishes the connection to Palette, the Edge host will renew the certificates if the existing certificates have less than 30 days before they expire.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | March 15, 2025     | Edge                         | 4.6.12      |
| [Cluster Removal](../clusters/cluster-management/remove-clusters.md) of Palette and VerteX clusters will get stuck if you attempt to delete a cluster with expired cloud account credentials. This may lead to cloud resources not being correctly removed and incurring unexpected cloud costs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | March 15, 2025     | Clusters                     | 4.6.12      |
| Palette Extended Kubernetes - Edge (PXK-E) version 1.31 is not yet supported for Edge clusters.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | February 24, 2025  | Edge                         | 4.6.12      |
| K3s certificate renewals for [Two-node Edge clusters](../clusters/edge/architecture/two-node.md) are not managed by Palette. Two-node clusters will use a default certificate list.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | February 17, 2025  | Edge                         | 4.6.8       |
| Clusters that are currently deployed and attempting to upgrade from Kubernetes version 1.31.1 to newer versions are getting stuck in the upgrade state. This issue also affects Day-2 operations related to changes in the Kubernetes layer YAML and the resize of control plane nodes for clusters using Kubernetes version 1.31.1. The root of the problem is an internal conversion error stemming from an internal type change introduced in Kubernetes version 1.31.x.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | January 19, 2025   | Clusters, Packs              | 4.6.6       |
| <!-- https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/browse/PCP-3907 --> Clusters using Mircrok8s and conducting backup and restore operations using Velero with [restic](https://github.com/restic/restic) are encountering restic pods going into the `crashloopbackoff` state. This issue stems from an upstream problem in the Velero project. You can learn more about it in the GitHub issue [4035](https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/issues/4035). Refer to the <VersionedLink text="MicroK8s" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes-microk8s" /> Additional Details section for troubleshooting workaround steps.                                                                                                                     | October 12, 2024   | Clusters                     | 4.6.6       |
```

Reviewer: Looks like this was actually resolved in 4.6.0 (4.6.6): https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/browse/PCP-4077

> | <!-- prettier-ignore --> Clusters deployed with Microk8s cannot accept kubectl commands if the <VersionedLink text="Spectro Proxy" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=spectro-proxy" /> pack is added to the cluster's cluster profile. The reason behind this issue is Microk8s' lack of support for `certSANs`. This causes the Kubernetes API server to reject Spectro Proxy certificates. Check out GitHub issue [114](https://github.com/canonical/cluster-api-bootstrap-provider-microk8s/issues/114) in the Microk8s cluster-api-bootstrap-provider-microk8s repository to learn more.                                                                                                                                                        | Use the CLI flag [`--insecure-skip-tls-verify`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/) with kubectl commands or use the [admin kubeconfig file](../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md#kubeconfig-files) to access the cluster API, as it does not use the Spectro Proxy server. This option may be limited to environments where you can access the cluster directly from a network perspective.                                                                                                                                                                                                                | October 1, 2024    | Clusters, Pack                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <!-- prettier-ignore --> Clusters deployed with Microk8s cannot accept kubectl commands if the <VersionedLink text="Spectro Proxy" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=spectro-proxy" /> pack is added to the cluster's cluster profile. This is because Microk8s does not support `certSANs`, which causes the Kubernetes API server to reject Spectro Proxy certificates. Refer to the [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/canonical/cluster-api-bootstrap-provider-microk8s/issues/114) for more information.                                                                                                                                                        | Use the CLI flag [`--insecure-skip-tls-verify`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/) with kubectl commands or use the [admin kubeconfig file](../clusters/cluster-management/kubeconfig.md#kubeconfig-files) to access the cluster API, as it does not use the Spectro Proxy server.                                                                                                                                                                                                                | October 1, 2024    | Clusters, Pack                            |
```

Reviewer: Just some cleanup while we're here 🧹
